For the next hour or so, we're gonna kinda
go through an author web components,
which is kind of exciting.
We haven't really done that yet
in the web components course, but
now we're finally here.
Now, we understand all the principles and
have had some challenges [LAUGH] along
the way, we are excited to code.
I have three basic
examples in the guidebook.
I think we maybe have time for
two if we wanna get out of here and so.
And then the big one,
the basic counter example, right?
So just how do you do an increment button?
Maybe we can add some styles to it, make
it kind of cool, maybe we'll start there.
I have the custom alert example,
where that custom alert I built in, and
then I can close it, and
then it hides and disappears.
We could also do that one, but
I think we'll just do the counter thing,
that's probably the easiest
way to get through it.
And then kind of the big one, right?
Let's build an app that looks for
local breweries, and
we can see if we visited them and
check them off as we go.
Maybe something like that,
something pretty useful, utilitarian.
[LAUGH] And then kind of annoying maybe
get into the more like what does an actual
app whole design system,
whole everything kind of feel like?
How do we do that?
And maybe the easiest way to get going and
get started some.
So we'll kind of start with the basic
counter, and you can maybe,
at this point, probably yell it at me.
[LAUGH] But so I have some cheaters here.
So here, we need to start with a basic.
We want my-counter, right?
And we want it to show up here,
let me see,
nothing's defined, okay, here we go.
I'm just gonna call it my-counter just so
we know it for later, and
then we're gonna type garbage in here.
So we know when the shadow DOM shows up.
[LAUGH] We did our job right, right?
So I think the first thing we're
gonna see, let's see here,
nothing's happening, is that correct?
That seems like it should
render at least something.
Yeah, okay, cool,
I need to figure out what's going on.
Maybe I'll just make sure that
that's also, okay, cool, all right.
CodePen thinks I'm a hacker,
okay, great, [LAUGH] we're good.
Okay, we're back, CodePen, we're good.
CodePen might be upset with how
many changes I've made today.
Great, here we go.
All right, so the outline, right, class.
We do classes, but
if we wanted to be cool to our friends
who might wanna use this array,
we could do that.
My-counter extends, and
do we want to do the lit one?
Let's just do lit,
cuz I'm not really a framework's guy,
I'm not really a just use a library guy.
But library solve a lot problems, and
I think we're gonna [LAUGH] in this
circumstance for
a five to seven kilobyte penalty.
I think it's a good trade-off just for
learning.
So MyCharacter is going
to extend LitElement,
but of course, we need import,
we're going to go get LitElement, right?
Element, and
then we know we want the HTML thing, and
we might as well just grab
the CSS while we're here.
From lit, right, and then it's gonna say,
CodePen has this nice feature, it says,
I don't know what you're talking about.
So we're gonna go get it from Skypack.
Great, we have it.
And then the last thing,
we need to do customElements,
plural, define my-counter.
And it's going to point
to the MyCounter class.
Easy enough, we're good here.
Okay, we're gonna have some
static properties, right?
We have what?
What properties would our
counter need to keep track of?
>> Count, yeah.
>> Count, okay, great.
Yeah, it needs to keep track of a count,
right?
And so, and then I'll circle back to that,
but that's what it's gonna need,
it needs a count, right?
We know we needed the constructor,
which is not my favorite part,
but that's just life in
class based programming.
[LAUGH] So
we're gonna call this super, and
then we're probably going to
initialize this count, right, to 0.
So this will be the section
where we want to kinda set it.
There may be a way to set it up here,
I don't know it offhand, so
I just set it down there.
And then because we're in Lit,
we're gonna do a render function, right?
And then what does our render function do?
Return html, right?
And then it's gonna have the button,
plus or minus, we'll put the -1 first.
We'll return this count, and
then we'll have a button that it
makes it go up, okay, into that.
The pieces are in there,
it's not interactive,
nothing happens here, but
that's actually really easy to do.
We have a question, yeah.
>> Yeah, I don't wanna get off
track on framework stuff, but
why is count an object in the properties?
>> Good question,
[LAUGH] I think you can maybe just
make it count, but
it didn't yell at me, but
I don't know if it's
gonna do anything yet.
One reason you do that, and
what I was gonna test here was
trying to get into the increment and
decrement.
And so one thing you do here to say it's
a reactive property is this state true?
And so you're basically saying,
this is a piece of state, so
let's keep track of it
like a piece of state.
So is that-
>> It's hard configuration,
then this is a property on this class.
>> Totally, and
then you can actually pass a type,
it doesn't do anything here.
It doesn't actually do type checking,
although, in theory,
we're sort of set up for it.
And if you're using
something more type based,
a lot of people use Lit
with TypeScript as well.
So you could do checking there also.
>> Can you pass in a value
up there then too or?
>> Yeah, we're getting there,
we're gonna get there.
Yeah, so right now, so
it's an interesting thing.
So when it state,
it wants to be like local state, right?
Like inside, this is kind of a weird
thing I just sort of learned, but
count wouldn't be cool if
we could pass in a count.
But we don't see that, right?
It's not happening, but what's weird is
if I just take this out, it does work.
So that's sort of the properties API's,
there's local state equals true is state.
And then I guess state equals false,
the default would turn it into
a property that you can adjust.
And this has some interesting side
effects, we have not rode our buttons, but
you know what?
[LAUGH] One thing I kinda do is,
this is my weirdest favorite part.
So from the document,
I can querySelector my-counter, okay?
And then I can say count = 10.
Weird, I can't really do
that with a React component
to my knowledge,
[LAUGH] just like hot select it and edit.
It's internal value, that's pretty cool.
It's cool to me, Dave Rupert, and
just in the fact, you could change.
If I had my podcast player and I just
wanted to like you clicked a link, and
now it shoots up into the podcast player.
That could be kind of cool,
I just yoink the URL,
the file URL, and
then put it into the component.
Kind of interesting, but let's get
the local state kind of going, right?
So cuz I don't know how to
spell increment and decrement,
we're just gonna do plus and minus.
I'm smart, I swear, count++, right?
Easy enough, and then our minus
is going to be, minus is count--.
And then we have to go to our buttons,
right?
And this is a custom directive, right?
Is that what they're called
when it's like the thing?
Yeah, okay, I get the directive and
decorators mixed up.
So this, but
we need to use JavaScript in here.
So this._plus, so we're just gonna say,
when you click this @click,
do this._plus, and
then on this one @click, or
this one's minus, sorry.
That would have missed it,
that would have been a bug.
And this one is this._plus, and
I think this should work
even with the quotes.
JSX, you can get confused cuz
you wouldn't put quotes there.
I'm getting confused, but what's neat
about this is we're able to kind
of pretty quickly create a counter,
allow it to be externally initialized.
So if it's your cart or
something like that,
it can be initialized like
that from the exterior,
and then we can do this plus or
minus thing.
But this weird state true, now,
it's just a only a local state variable,
it's not broadcast anywhere.
So any questions,
you wanna do some styles?
We can make our buttons green,
cuz I feel like we've struggled
with [LAUGH] buttons all day.
Styles =, and then they said this works.
[LAUGH] Let's try it, button ( background:
green ), hopefully that does it.
Hey, that did work that time,
it's Christmas miracle, yes, sir
>> In the properties, the count, and
then having an object and state and all
that, is that specific to Lit or is that?
>> That's specific to Lit,
the way it kind of works in Vanilla Realm,
and this is just kind of pseudocode,
static get observedAttributes.
So you basically create,
and I think this returns
an array of count or something like that.
And so basically,
you're registering an attribute that
you want to eventually keep track of.
And then that's an attribute changed,
when that attribute changes,
you get notified of
the attribute changed callback.
So again, sort of that issue where
a props and attributes are different.
It's all sort of showing up now that
we're starting to author web components.
And that's just sort of one maybe
sticky point you need to be aware of,
is just how props and attributes.
They feel like the same thing, but
they're kinda different to HTML, so, yes.
>> Are there limitations on the property
names, you can use whatever you want or?
>> You can use whatever you want for
properties.
You can use whatever you want, it may get,
what if it's source [LAUGH] like an image
in the actual existing property.
That might be problematic, but
I could also see situations
where you'd change or
you'd want ARIA or
things like that reflected in here,
check attributes, and stuff like that.
So that's a good question.
I don't know how far you can break it or
if it yells about something existing,
I mean, we could switch this to or.
Yeah, I don't think it cares,
because it's your custom element.
It thinks it's a div,
the browser thinks this is a div or span.
It says, okay, cool, that's the div or
something goes there, and
then you tell it what
attributes it accepts.
So there may be just weird
situations I'm not thinking of,
but there's also in HTML, we have the data
hyphen attributes, data-foo=myvalue.
This stuff all kind of is maybe as dumb as
HTML seems, that's intelligently designed.
Because data stuff has a hyphen, and
then the elements stuff
does not have a hyphen.
So kind of these user authored
things probably need a hyphen,
but the element authored things should
have a normal, unhyphenated thing.
No hard rules here, but
this just interesting, so.
>> Other patterns that
people generally follow?
>> No, I mean,
I think it's just usually just
whatever makes sense
succinctly as possible, so.
Cuz this is your insurance
policy that no one is there.
And I don't really talk about it, but
there is a chance, like what if two
my-counters show up on the page?
No, [LAUGH] what do we do?
There's proposals and stuff like that for
namespacing custom elements.
So if I import this package of components,
I wanted to go into this namespace bucket.
I don't know the status on that,
so I don't cover it, but
there's kind of this idea of namespace
says or sets for components.